tools/lint/docs/linters/flake8.rst, before:

Flake8
======

`Flake8`_ is a popular lint wrapper for python. Under the hood, it runs three other tools and
combines their results:

* `pep8`_ for checking style
* `pyflakes`_ for checking syntax
* `mccabe`_ for checking complexity


Run Locally
-----------

The mozlint integration of flake8 can be run using mach:

.. parsed-literal::

    $ mach lint --linter flake8 <file paths>

Alternatively, omit the ``--linter flake8`` and run all configured linters, which will include
flake8.


Configuration
-------------

Only directories explicitly whitelisted will have flake8 run against them. To enable flake8 linting
in a source directory, it must be added to the ``include`` directive in ```tools/lint/flake8.lint``.
If you wish to exclude a subdirectory of an included one, you can add it to the ``exclude``
directive.

The default configuration file lives in ``topsrcdir/.flake8``. The default configuration can be
overriden for a given subdirectory by creating a new ``.flake8`` file in the subdirectory. Be warned
that ``.flake8`` files cannot inherit from one another, so all configuration you wish to keep must
be re-defined.

For an overview of the supported configuration, see `flake8's documentation`_.

.. _Flake8: https://flake8.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
.. _pep8: http://pep8.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
.. _pyflakes: https://github.com/pyflakes/pyflakes
.. _mccabe: https://github.com/pycqa/mccabe
.. _flake8's documentation: https://flake8.readthedocs.io/en/latest/config.html

Commit message:

Bug 1277851 - [mozlint] Run flake8 directories that contain a .flake8 file separately, r=maja_zf
This is a crude workaround to get subdirectory .flake8 files working. Hopefully
this is temporary until flake8 3.0 is released with support for multiple config
files.

Note that .flake8 files that live outside of a directory that is explicitly
listed in the 'include' directive, will not be considered.

MozReview-Commit-ID: GtpUZHJKq52

tools/lint/docs/linters/flake8.rst, after:

Flake8
======

`Flake8`_ is a popular lint wrapper for python. Under the hood, it runs three other tools and
combines their results:

* `pep8`_ for checking style
* `pyflakes`_ for checking syntax
* `mccabe`_ for checking complexity


Run Locally
-----------

The mozlint integration of flake8 can be run using mach:

.. parsed-literal::

    $ mach lint --linter flake8 <file paths>

Alternatively, omit the ``--linter flake8`` and run all configured linters, which will include
flake8.


Configuration
-------------

Only directories explicitly whitelisted will have flake8 run against them. To enable flake8 linting
in a source directory, it must be added to the ``include`` directive in ```tools/lint/flake8.lint``.
If you wish to exclude a subdirectory of an included one, you can add it to the ``exclude``
directive.

The default configuration file lives in ``topsrcdir/.flake8``. The default configuration can be
overriden for a given subdirectory by creating a new ``.flake8`` file in the subdirectory. Be warned
that ``.flake8`` files cannot inherit from one another, so all configuration you wish to keep must
be re-defined.

.. warning::

    Only ``.flake8`` files that live in a directory that is explicitly included in the ``include``
    directive will be considered. See `bug 1277851`_ for more details.

For an overview of the supported configuration, see `flake8's documentation`_.

.. _Flake8: https://flake8.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
.. _pep8: http://pep8.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
.. _pyflakes: https://github.com/pyflakes/pyflakes
.. _mccabe: https://github.com/pycqa/mccabe
.. _bug 1277851: https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1277851
.. _flake8's documentation: https://flake8.readthedocs.io/en/latest/config.html
